# vanchan03.github.io

Introduction

	For our project we looked at three different time management tools: Notion, Google Calendar, and physical planners. We also interviewed students and compiled their thoughts on different types of tools. Based off those assessments and interviews we compiled the best features of time management tools in order to create our own tool that would best suit a student’s needs. 

 Assesment of Other Time Management Applications
Notion
Notion is a web and mobile application used to organize notes and compile to do list. 
When you first start with notion you are given a blank page where you are given the ability to add to do list or insert subpages for note taking etc. 
The user has the ability to design their pages based on their own individual tastes. Templates are available on the website to help users get started. These templates include layouts based around different users, some are formulated for students while others are formulated for organizations to organize and give out tasks. You can embed multiple different widgets in Notion including some for music like a spotify widget. Another plus about Notion is the ability to embed different applications like Google Drive. Besides embed there is the multiple text features that you would find in Word or Google Doc such as: headings, dividers, tables, etc. Other unique features include the ability to embed code which allows you to customize your page with unique features like a pomodoro timer, your Google Calendar, etc. Users can add Icons for pages as well as header photos in order to further customize.
The difficulty of notion, however, comes from the multiple features available to customize. Starting with a blank page makes it difficult for users when first beginning with the application. It isn’t exactly obvious the extent to which you can take advantage of notion features. For example, if you are a user with no coding knowledge, without a guide or existing template you wouldn’t know how to include features like a timer or calendar. There is definitely a learning curve in addition to the commitment it takes to finalize your page to your liking. Because it isn’t so straightforward, users complain that customizing your page takes up the most time. Time that could be spent actually completing the assignments whose info you’re trying to organize on a page. The plus of Notion, however, comes when your page(s) are complete and you have the ability to have all of your school items in one place versus across multiple applications. It is a application that is useful for users that struggle with remembering tasks and assignments because the info is spread across multiple pages. It’s a unique way of organizing and converging different streams of information, but that positive is dependent on how comfortable that user becomes with Notions different capabilities. 

Google Calendar

Google Calendar is a web and mobile application that functions as a calendar- can be used to organize different tasks and time-block. It has the ability to sort blocks into different types (E.g. tasks vs. events. Vs. birthdays. Vs. holidays). There is also the ability to import from other calendars (E.g. different emails, organizations). Google Calendar has different calendar views like schedule view: vertical infinite scroll, day, 3- day, week, and month. Other functions include: Search function and Go-to-today button. There is also the option to add blocks (Event vs. task vs. working location vs. out of office) and edit blocks (drag and drop). You can edit multiple aspects of the calendar including the time, guests, location, notification settings, color, and description of calendar events. More customization options are the colors of events, size of time increments, and event illustrations (E.g “dinner” automatically creates a food banner).
The Pros are the customization. Everyone has a different way of organizing their events/tasks etc. as well as different preferences for how they want this information to be presented to them. This application gives the user a wide range of options- switching between different options is additionally very easy. It is Intuitive, there is simple navigation. For both web and mobile views, the existence of the sidebar/main menu prevents too many options from being in view at once, preventing information overload. The application does very well in responding to mobile interface in a way that is convenient and accessible for mobile devices (E.g. add event at bottom right corner, limited navigation). Another pro is connectivity: the ability to import from other calendars and individuals via email enables the user to keep track of group events- very common in school and work life.
 	One downside is that to-do list is not as intuitive as the standard checkbox : the list template that is familiar. Another is task functionality. Tasks cannot be marked as in progress and sometimes tasks do not have a set time, they just need to be done at some point. Because both calendar events and tasks are important to see at all times, separating via a filter function might not be the best. Perhaps the solution would be separating tasks from the calendar?

Analog: A Written Planner

The General Use Case for an Analog option of time management is a  physical notebook that can be edited and customized with writing tools, following a general template that structures times.
Tools can include a journal, pen, pencil, color pens, color pencils, highlighters, stickers, ribbons, rulers, and/or online templates. Structures can include a time table or to do list, pictured below:
Timetable:
